README.md, before:

CKEditor 5 mention feature
===========================

[![Join the chat at https://gitter.im/ckeditor/ckeditor5](https://badges.gitter.im/ckeditor/ckeditor5.svg)](https://gitter.im/ckeditor/ckeditor5?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge)
[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/%40ckeditor%2Fckeditor5-mention.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@ckeditor/ckeditor5-mention)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/ckeditor/ckeditor5-mention.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/ckeditor/ckeditor5-mention)
[![BrowserStack Status](https://automate.browserstack.com/automate/badge.svg?badge_key=d3hvenZqQVZERFQ5d09FWXdyT0ozVXhLaVltRFRjTTUyZGpvQWNmWVhUUT0tLUZqNlJ1YWRUd0RvdEVOaEptM1B2Q0E9PQ==--c9d3dee40b9b4471ff3fb516d9ecf8d09292c7e0)](https://automate.browserstack.com/public-build/d3hvenZqQVZERFQ5d09FWXdyT0ozVXhLaVltRFRjTTUyZGpvQWNmWVhUUT0tLUZqNlJ1YWRUd0RvdEVOaEptM1B2Q0E9PQ==--c9d3dee40b9b4471ff3fb516d9ecf8d09292c7e0)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/ckeditor/ckeditor5-mention/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/ckeditor/ckeditor5-mention?branch=master)
<br>
[![Dependency Status](https://david-dm.org/ckeditor/ckeditor5-mention/status.svg)](https://david-dm.org/ckeditor/ckeditor5-mention)
[![devDependency Status](https://david-dm.org/ckeditor/ckeditor5-mention/dev-status.svg)](https://david-dm.org/ckeditor/ckeditor5-mention?type=dev)

This package implements mention support for CKEditor 5.

## Documentation

See the [`@ckeditor/ckeditor5-mention` package](https://ckeditor.com/docs/ckeditor5/latest/api/mention.html) page in [CKEditor 5 documentation](https://ckeditor.com/docs/ckeditor5/latest/).

## License

Licensed under the terms of [GNU General Public License Version 2 or later](http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html). For full details about the license, please check the `LICENSE.md` file.

Commit message:

Docs: API docs and guides of the mention feature corrected. [skip ci]

README.md, after:

CKEditor 5 mention feature
===========================

[![Join the chat at https://gitter.im/ckeditor/ckeditor5](https://badges.gitter.im/ckeditor/ckeditor5.svg)](https://gitter.im/ckeditor/ckeditor5?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge)
[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/%40ckeditor%2Fckeditor5-mention.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@ckeditor/ckeditor5-mention)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/ckeditor/ckeditor5-mention.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/ckeditor/ckeditor5-mention)
[![BrowserStack Status](https://automate.browserstack.com/automate/badge.svg?badge_key=d3hvenZqQVZERFQ5d09FWXdyT0ozVXhLaVltRFRjTTUyZGpvQWNmWVhUUT0tLUZqNlJ1YWRUd0RvdEVOaEptM1B2Q0E9PQ==--c9d3dee40b9b4471ff3fb516d9ecf8d09292c7e0)](https://automate.browserstack.com/public-build/d3hvenZqQVZERFQ5d09FWXdyT0ozVXhLaVltRFRjTTUyZGpvQWNmWVhUUT0tLUZqNlJ1YWRUd0RvdEVOaEptM1B2Q0E9PQ==--c9d3dee40b9b4471ff3fb516d9ecf8d09292c7e0)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/ckeditor/ckeditor5-mention/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/ckeditor/ckeditor5-mention?branch=master)
<br>
[![Dependency Status](https://david-dm.org/ckeditor/ckeditor5-mention/status.svg)](https://david-dm.org/ckeditor/ckeditor5-mention)
[![devDependency Status](https://david-dm.org/ckeditor/ckeditor5-mention/dev-status.svg)](https://david-dm.org/ckeditor/ckeditor5-mention?type=dev)

This package implements mention support for CKEditor 5 and brings smart autocompletion based on user input.

## Demo

Check out the demo in the [Mentions (autocomplete) feature](https://ckeditor.com/docs/ckeditor5/latest/features/mentions.html) guide.

## Documentation

See the [`@ckeditor/ckeditor5-mention` package](https://ckeditor.com/docs/ckeditor5/latest/api/mention.html) page in [CKEditor 5 documentation](https://ckeditor.com/docs/ckeditor5/latest/).

## License

Licensed under the terms of [GNU General Public License Version 2 or later](http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html). For full details about the license, please check the `LICENSE.md` file.
